Internshala Final Assesment Question and Answers:
`````````````````````````````````````````````````
Question 1 1 Mark
If we write 3*5 in the python console, we will get?

A 15
B 8
C 2
D Error
Correct Answer: A. 15
* is a multiplication operator and hence the output is 15.


Question 2 2 Marks
Scaling can only be applied to?

A Numerical variables
B Categorical variables
C Date-time variables
D Both A and B
Correct Answer: A. Numerical variables
Scaling cannot be used with categorical variables or date-time variables.


Question 3 3 marks
Which of the following methods is used to avoid overfitting in a decision tree?

A Reducing the max depth value of the tree.
B Increasing the max depth value for the tree.
C Reducing the number of training points.
D Increasing the number of training points.
Correct Answer: A. Reducing the max depth value of the tree.
Increasing the growth of the tree increases the chances of overfitting and hence if we stop the growth, it can help us to avoid overfitting.


Question 4 1 Mark
Can the mean squared error have negative values?

A Yes
B No
Correct Answer: B. No
The mean squared error cannot have negative values because we use the squares of differences.


Question 5 2 Marks
Which of the following approach can be used to detect outliers in a particular variable?

A Scatter plot
B Box plot
C Frequency table

Correct Answer: B. Box plot
Box plot uses whiskers to show the range of the data. Points past the end of the whiskers are the outlier points in that variable.


Question 6 3 marks
Clustering cannot be used when there is only 1 feature.

A True
B False
Correct Answer: B. False
Minimum number of variables required to perform clustering analysis is 1.


Question 7 1 Mark
Which of the following can be used to check the shape of the dataset (given that the dataset is stored with the name df)?

A df.dtypes
B df.shape()
C df.shape
D None of the above
Correct Answer: C. df.shape
To check the shape of the dataset, we use the dataset_name.shape. Thus option C is correct.


Question 8 2 Marks
Random forest can handle missing values on its own.

A Yes
B No
Correct Answer: B. No
We need to impute the missing values before we build a random forest model.


Question 9 3 marks
Which of the following is not a function of dataframe?

A dataframe.columns
B dataframe.rows
C dataframe.tail()
D
dataframe.shape
Correct Answer: B. dataframe.rows
.rows is not a function of dataframe whereas all the remaining options represent a function of a dataframe.


Question 10 1 Mark
The best split in a decision tree algorithm is decided based on the purity of the node.

A True
B False
Correct Answer: A. True
The objective of a decision tree algorithm is to create the most pure nodes and classify all the data points correctly.

Question 11 2 Marks
Random forest is built using?

A Multiple linear regression
B Multiple kNN models
C Multiple decision tree
Correct Answer: C. Multiple decision tree
Random forest is an ensemble of multiple decision trees.


Question 12 3 marks
Which of the following are examples of categorical variables?

1. Income
2. Gender
3. Age
4. Marital Status
5. Birth Place

A 2 and 3
B 1 and 4
C 2, 4, 5
D 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
Correct Answer: C. 2, 4, 5
Age and income are continuous variables while others are categorical.


Question 13 1 Mark
Clustering is an _________ algorithm.

A supervised
B unsupervised
Correct Answer: B. unsupervised
Clustering is a technique that is used to deal with unsupervised ML problems.


Question 14 2 Marks
What will be the output of the below statement?
if 5 > 10:
  print("fan")
elif 8 != 9:
  print("glass")
else:
  print("cream")

A fan
B glass
C cream
D 5
Correct Answer: B. glass
Out of all the conditions, 8 != 9 (8 is not equal to 9) is true. So, elif statement will be true and thus the output will be ‘glass’.


Question 15 3 marks
Which of the following is true for r-squared and adjusted r-squared?

A Both r-squared and adjusted r-squared always increase with the addition of new features.
B R-squared may decrease on the addition of new features.
C Adjusted r-squared may decrease on addition of new features.
D Both r-squared and adjusted r-squared always decrease with the addition of new features.
Correct Answer: C. Adjusted r-squared may decrease on addition of new features.
R-squared can never decrease while the adjusted r-squared may increase or decrease on the addition of new features.


Question 16 1 Mark
Linear regression and logistic regression are both used for regression problems.

A True
B False
Correct Answer: B. False
Linear regression is used for regression problems while the logistic regression can only be used for classification problems.


Question 17 2 Marks
For selecting the value of k in K-mean algorithm, we can use which of the following method?

A Set the number of data points as k.
B Use elbow method to find k.
C We do not have to set the k value.
Correct Answer: B. Use elbow method to find k.
Out of the given options, the elbow method is used for finding the optimal number of clusters.


Question 18 3 marks
The best fit line in linear regression is determined using which method?

A Least square error
B Model accuracy
C Logarithmic loss
D Both A and B
Correct Answer: A. Least square error
In linear regression, we try to minimize the least square errors of the model to identify the line of best fit.


Question 19 1 Mark
Which of the following evaluation metrics can be used for classification problems?

1. RMSE
2. Accuracy
3. Log loss
4. MAE
5. Confusion Matrix

A 1, 4, 5
B 2, 3, 5
C 1, 4, 3
D 1, 2, 3
Correct Answer: B. 2, 3, 5
For classification problems, error related evaluation metrics such as RMSE, MAE, and r-squared cannot be used.


Question 20 2 Marks
Which of the following can be used to scale the variables?

A Min max scaler
B Standard scaler
C Both A and B
D None of the above
Correct Answer: C. Both A and B
The data can be scaled using either of the two methods.


Question 21 3 marks
Which of the following algorithm is affected by the scale of data?

A KNN
B K-means
C Decision tree
D Both A and B
Correct Answer: D. Both A and B
Decision tree is a tree based algorithm while the other two are distance based algorithm.


Question 22 1 Mark
The value of k in kNN algorithm can be decided using which of the following methods?

A By keeping k same as the number of data points.
B By plotting the elbow curve.
C The value of k will be equal to the number of features.
D The value of k in kNN cannot be changed.
Correct Answer: B. By plotting the elbow curve.
The value of k is decided using the elbow curve method.


Question 23 2 Marks
The AUC-ROC can be used for both classification as well as regression problems.

A True
B False
Correct Answer: B. False
The AUC ROC can only be used in case of binary classification problems.


Question 24 3 marks
Which of the following can be used to deal with categorical variables?

A One hot encoding
B Label encoding
C Log transformation
D Both A and B
Correct Answer: D. Both A and B
One hot and label encoding are both used for categorical variables. Log transformation is used to transform continuous variables.


Question 25 1 Mark
Which of the following evaluation metrics can be used for regression problems?

1. RMSE
2. Accuracy
3. Log loss
4. MAE
5. R-squared

A 1, 4, 3
B 2, 3, 4
C 1, 4, 5
D 1, 2, 3
Correct Answer: C. 1, 4, 5
Root mean squared error (RMSE), mean absolute error (MAE), and r-squared are used for regression problems. While accuracy, log loss, and confusion metrics can be used only when the target variable is continuous.


Question 26 2 Marks
Which of the following is an ensemble method?

A Decision tree
B Random forest
C K-means
D Both A and B
Correct Answer: B. Random forest
Only random forest is an ensemble technique. K-means is a clustering method.


Question 27 3 marks
Standard deviation is robust to outliers.

A True
B False
Correct Answer: B. False
Standard deviation is calculated considering all the points in the variable. If we have outliers in the dataset, the mean will be affected and in turn, the standard deviation will also be affected by the presence of outliers. Hence, standard deviation is not robust to outliers.


Question 28 1 Mark
Clustering is a supervised machine learning algorithm.

A True
B False
Correct Answer: B. False
Clustering is an unsupervised machine learning algorithm.


Question 29 2 Marks
Which of the below mentioned algorithms can be used for both classification and regression tasks?

1. Linear regression
2. Logistic regression
3. kNN
4. Decision tree
5. Random forest

A 4 and 5
B 3, 4, 5
C 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
D 2, 4, 5
Correct Answer: B. 3, 4, 5
Linear regression can only be used for regression problems while the logistic regression can only be used for classification problems. All the other techniques can be used with both regression and classification tasks.


Question 30 3 marks
As the value for k in kNN increases, the model starts to?

A Overfit
B Underfit
C Cannot be determined
Correct Answer: B. Underfit
The model performs poorly on both training and test data.


Question 31 1 Mark
Which of the following is an unsupervised machine learning algorithm?

A kNN
B K-means
C Decision tree
D Both A and B
Correct Answer: B. K-means
Out of the given options, only k-means is an unsupervised machine learning algorithm.


Question 32 2 Marks
Can logistic regression be used for multiclass classification problems?

A Yes
B No
Correct Answer: A. Yes
The logistic regression can be implemented for a multiclass problem using the one-versus all method.


Question 33 3 marks
Only categorical variables can be used for splitting in case of a decision tree algorithm.

A True
B False
Correct Answer: B. False
Both categorical and continuous variables are considered while deciding the best split in the decision tree.


Question 34 1 Mark
On what basis you can differentiate between a classifications and a regression problem?

A The dependent variable
B The independent variable
C Both A and B
Correct Answer: A. The dependent variable
For classification problem, the dependent variable is categorical. In case of the regression problem, the dependent variable is continuous.


Question 35 2 Marks
Which of the following data structure(s) can be included in a dictionary?

A Tuples
B Dictionary
C Lists
D All of the above
Correct Answer: D. All of the above
Dictionaries can include tuples, dictionaries as well as lists.


